I wanna start off talking
about function or
Mona Transformers by talking
about functor composition.
So what we have here is
a type that says compose.
I'm gonna take two other types F and
G and I'm gonna return you a new type M.
And if I wanna put something in M, we'll
put it in the G, in the F, and in the M.
And if I wanna map, I'll map over the g,
and map over the f,
and keep that in the M.
Cool, all right, let's see how this works.
I can say, well,
I have let's call a TaskEither.
And I'll make a compose.
And I'll Compose(Task, Either), okay?
I wanna put something in a TaskEither.
So it's a task on the outside
either on the inside.
That's right.
So then we'll say TaskEither of, to.
Give myself some space will map
over that we have a to two times,
10 will map over it again just for
funsies two or this 10 20.
[LAUGH] Goodness.
So we got twenty <> twenty + 1.
All right, and then we're going to fork
this, because it is not a task either.
It's a compose of TaskEither.
So we actually have to get
it out of the the compose.
Now I've shown extract a few times.
And for those of you who new fold and
such, extract is coming from,
it does not take the function and
then pass that to the function.
You just get it out and
it's part of the common ad
interface, but
it's only one piece of that.
Okay, so we can extract out of
the compose to get our TaskEither.
And once we call this console.error and
then we get the either in there,
then we could fold out the either
to a console.log, console.log.
All right, terrific.
People see how this is working.
I have a task of either of mapping
over the value inside of it and
to take out of the compose.
So I get my task, and then I run that,
and the task is holding either, so
then I get my either.
But during my whole computation,
I didn't really have to care, I didn't
have to map map all over the place.
My one map just did both maps for me.
So if I run it transformers/0,
we got 21, perfect.
And so functors compose effortlessly.
Any functor just composes with others.
In fact, you can compose it with compose,
I could say I could compose identity with
that and so on, and it's associative.
And we actually have
an identity functor don't we?
So actually functors themselves for form
category where they act like functions.
You can compose them and
you have an identity and
then they provide this whole kind
of one click up from functions.
It's a whole composition toolkit.
But we're not gonna go too far into it,
where things get hairy.
If I do chain I have to
somehow provide a TaskEither.
So I get into this too and
I have to deal with creating
another task either to chain that.
And that is not mechanical.
That doesn't always work.
You can't just compose two mon ads.
And just expect it to chain for us.
We can't write a chain that
makes sense here, in compose.
Does everybody understand that fact,
maybe not why but at least
there's a fact that says we cannot
write a flat map or a chain in here.
And we make sense like for
each montaic, kind of each type
has its own way to specify map and chain
if you're gonna fall out of the type.
You have to know about the details and
this you just it just
bottles it right back up for you so
you can always map map and you're fine.
So we cannot chain these these things.
So what are we gonna do?
We saw we could, we can kind of combine
task and either into a monoid and
just say like, I'm just gonna keep
combining my map my task eaters and
work with the stuff inside
it through concatenation.
But typically you're going to want
to map and chain, so you could run
a composition of functions over it
instead of just combining their insights.